What is variable? What are the rules to define in variable?
A variable is a name that stores data in memory.
Rules: It must start with a letter or underscore, no spaces, and can't use reserved keywords.
Example: name = "John"

What is the use of decision-making statements? What are they and explain?
They control the flow of execution based on conditions.
Types: if, if-else, elif, and nested if.
Used to perform different actions based on different conditions.

Write a program on given number is strong number or not?

python
Copy
Edit
import math  
n = int(input("Enter a number: "))  
if n == sum(math.factorial(int(d)) for d in str(n)):  
    print("Strong number")  
else:  
    print("Not a Strong number")
Difference between list and tuple?
List is mutable, tuple is immutable.
List uses [], tuple uses ().
Lists are generally slower than tuples.

What is list comprehension?
A concise way to create lists using a single line.
Syntax: [expression for item in iterable if condition]
Example: [x for x in range(10) if x%2==0]

Can you create a list with 1-10 even numbers?

python
Copy
Edit
evens = [x for x in range(1, 11) if x % 2 == 0]  
print(evens)  # Output: [2, 4, 6, 8, 10]
What is String?
A string is a sequence of characters enclosed in quotes.
It is immutable in Python.
Example: "Hello, world!"

Write a program to check whether the given string is palindrome or not?

python
Copy
Edit
s = input("Enter a string: ")  
if s == s[::-1]:  
    print("Palindrome")  
else:  
    print("Not Palindrome")
What is a generator?
A generator yields items one at a time using yield keyword.
It is memory-efficient and used in loops or iteration.
Example: def gen(): yield 1

What do you mean by closure?
A closure is a function with access to variables in its outer function scope.
Even after the outer function finishes, the inner function remembers the state.
Useful in callback or decorator functions.

Where we generally use closure?
Closures are used in decorators, callbacks, and data hiding.
They help maintain state without using global variables.
Useful in functional programming.

What is difference between procedural oriented programming and oops?
POP focuses on functions and procedures.
OOP is based on classes and objects.
OOP promotes encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.

What do you mean by top-down approach and bottom-up approach?
Top-down starts from high-level modules to low-level ones.
Bottom-up begins from low-level functions building upward.
Used in system design and programming.

What do you mean by inheritance?
Inheritance allows a class to inherit features from another class.
Promotes code reuse and relationship between classes.
Example: class Child(Parent):

What is difference between DELETE and TRUNCATE?
DELETE removes rows one by one and can be rolled back.
TRUNCATE removes all rows quickly, can't be rolled back.
TRUNCATE resets identity; DELETE doesn't by default.

